---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/world-history/the-night-of-tau/"}
---


“On this Summer Solstice, The Night of Tau, eons before our time. A beautiful meteor shower rained down from the heavens above. The ground shook beneath your feet, and you could smell the sulfur and brimstone. However, you could also smell Flowers, Old books, the Sea, and the pungent smell of dirt and metal. Waves of different scents and colors spread through the sky, streaks of light painting the sky. It almost looked as though the sky was crying tears of stars. When the sun peered over the horizon the silhouette of 18 different figures could be accounted for worldwide. Each climbing from a crater left by a meteor of a different scent and color. These figures slowly showed themselves as magnificent beings of pure color and magic. They could take the form of whatever, or whoever they wanted to, similar to changelings in that way. The mortals who had never seen anything quite like it were cautious, some curious, but all terrified. These beings had seemingly come in peace but in doing so, they had destroyed cities, shattered islands, and killed thousands of people. Seeing the destruction and anguish they caused, the beings slowly helped to rebuild the lands around them. Using their powers to assist where they could. After helping to rebuild what they had broken they gave the gift of magic to the lands around them. The mortals dubbed them as Gods, Deities, the all-powerful ones. Enjoying the attention they decided to give magic to mortals as well. Some magic was more desirable than others however all magic was powerful. But due to the nature of some of these new powers, gods were turned on and sent away, abandoned. Though the gods knew no way to return to the skies they fell from, and having been abandoned by the mortals they felt almost lost. Eventually those of the “undesirable power”  were forgotten, and seemingly disappeared from the world. Over time mortals have tried to find them again, failing in their attempts. However, those who weren’t forgotten are still very much present today, you just have to know who (or what) to look for.” — Head Archivist, Elwin Biceran, Year of Petra 918 ALTN

— Transcribed on the Night of Tau celebration by Scribe, Shael Beistina, Year of Petra 918 ALTN

Eons ago, an event known as the Night of Tau changed the world of Palonia as the people had known it. Though not much was known about Palonia *before* the Night of Tau, it's widely known that the mortals prior did not worship deities. Most other information is that of rumors rather than fact (on the *before*).

The Night of Tau brought the mortals Gods, magic, crystals, it completely changed their ecosystems. For a few too many unfortunate souls, it brought them death. In many texts it's said that the mortals blamed [[Deities, Myths & Lore/Calous\|Calous]] for this influx. However these weren't the only thing the Night of Tau brought with it, the Academy. manjahgvsjhffasasfgsfa