---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/nightvale/nightvale-academy/"}
---


Nightvale Academy. The school that suddenly and magically showed up, headmistress and all. The school itself is beautiful, with strong gothic architecture matched by overgrown roots and vines seemingly chaining the building to the ground it sits on. To the untrained eye, one would say the person who built it was brilliant. However a skilled stonemason knew no being alive could've done this, the building looked carved out of a mountain; and with that level of detail, no living being could've made that with their hands. [[World History/Palonia/Countries/Fostrela (Fahs-trel-uh)#Vixgate\|Fostrela (Fahs-trel-uh)#Vixgate]] had accepted the sudden arrival of the school rather warmly on [[World History/The Night of Tau\|The Night of Tau]]. The Cynan Historic Library has written accounts of the night the school showed up, and every quote said the same “The school grew out of the ground”. All other public information about the school is also listed in the library, though not much is there. The school and the students have always seemed pleased with their lives and how their time was spent. Six [[Nightvale/Levels\|Levels]] of schooling are offered to the students, all of them starting at the first level, Procyon. The levels are known as the following, Procyon, Mizar, Polaris, Vega, Regulus, and finally Sirius. Then there's the grounds themselves, which also seemed rather alive in itself, some might even say the roots on the building would move. However not much else is known about the school or its staff, the headmistress being the most mysterious individual of them all. It’s rumored among the townspeople that the headmistress ( [[Important People & Noble Families/The Ilea Family#Caipra Ilea\|The Ilea Family#Caipra Ilea]] ) has a daughter engaged to the crown prince of Vixgate, apparently through some sort of deal for peace. The school has always been quite mysterious in how it operates and most people choose not to pry out of fear of retaliation from the headmistress. It’s said that long ago she used to rule Vixgate along with running the school, some might say she still does.

  

People now abide by the rules [[Nightvale/The Nightvale Council\|The Nightvale Council]] sets out, even [[Important People & Noble Families/The Cynan Royal Family\|The Cynan Royal Family]] and guard. Of course, the Academy has never proven itself an enemy to Vixgate, and because of this, it has been allowed to operate rather independently from the kingdom.

  

Once a year, the day after the Feast of the Moon and the first day of Nightal, the academy goes through the process of accepting new students. Prospective students are sent a letter based on the tests done on the blood samples sent in by the individual cities and kingdoms. These letters of acceptance get sent out about 2 months in advance. Since the blood drawings are done in early spring, there's just enough time to have all the tests done for the upcoming year. Students are expected to show up on the first day of Nightal, most arriving by airship, ship, or horse. Upon arrival, students are left to explore the city for the morning. Meeting at the Academy for their entry into the Summoning magics around midday. First-year students are prohibited from leaving campus during their first year at the school, this is for the students’ safety.

