---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/nightvale/the-archives/"}
---

The Archives, essentially a glorified library. Although books tend to be published in limited quantities, the Archives houses at least one copy of any book published more than once. In some cases, it houses the only remaining copy of some texts. Books aren't the only thing the Archives house however, [[Deities, Myths & Lore/Aster\|Aster]] calls the bookshelves of the grand room his home.

While most of the deities keep to themselves, Aster is commonly found alongside mortals. Working as a glorified scribe, he spends almost all of his time within the Archives, rarely leaving. For many students, they use him as the library catalog rather than treating him as the god he is, he doesn't seem to care though as he's normally too busy reading to fully pay attention.

Unlike normal libraries however, the Archives has some rather drastic safety measures in place to protect the precious knowledge within. A grand clock hanging from the center of the Archives works as a timer to students, at midnight three bells will sound. The bells are to warn any within the Archives of the time. Every night as the midnight bells sound the runes lining the Archive walls and doors begin to glow, slowly activating the protective magic of the Archives. The magic that protects the Archives is very old and powerful, immune to all attempts at dispelling it. Only [[Important People & Noble Families/The Ilea Family\|The Ilea Family]] knows the true secrets of the spell. Once the spell is active, the Archives is considered *"On Lockdown"* and anyone inside the Archives will simply have to survive until morning. Unfortunately, no one other than Aster has been known to survive a night within the Archives. Aster also refuses to speak of how the Archives operates after hours. The main rule when it comes to the archives is to be out before the bells strike.

Other than books, the Archives is a good place to meet up with fellow students, as it's a common space for all levels. Private study rooms are available to be rented out at a students convenience, simply speak to a scribe. In the hopes of preserving the ancient texts, food and drink of all kinds are forbidden within the Archives, drinks can be left with the scribe attending the center desk. Fighting within the archives is also forbidden, altercations of all kinds are to be taken outside the walls of the archives.