---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/deities-myths-and-lore/general-information/"}
---

Long ago on [[World History/The Night of Tau\|The Night of Tau]], a meteor shower that changed the world came down. Within the molten hot stones falling from the heavens were entities we now refer to as deities, or gods to some. The shower itself was beautiful, painting the sky in wondrous colorful lights. The air aromanating with different scents, all dependent on where you were at the time. In [[World History/Keatara\|Keatara]] it was said to smell of old books and clovers, in [[World History/Palonia/Countries/Estrye (Es-tray)\|Estrye (Es-tray)]] the smell of wild flowers and the metallic scent of blood. At the time, people didn’t know what to think; these creatures had descended upon them sending their world into chaos. Many people lost their homes during the night and others lost their loved ones. At first the mortals were angry, and rightfully so, however the rage slowly left as they watched these beings rebuild. Although they refused to bring back the dead and couldn't fix the broken lands, they built back all the homes they could. Gaining the trust of the mortals as they used their gifts to assist them. The mortals built monuments to honor these heavenly beings and named them as deities; gods. So these deities gifted the mortal world with magic, something not commonly found or used at the time.


Over time the mortals began to learn more about these deities, and in some cases became untrusting and afraid of them. The mortals chose to outcast those they didn’t trust, feeling spurned and abandoned; the deities left, going where mortals could not find them. As time passed, these deities were slowly forgotten by the majority, turning into legends and myths rather than fact. It’s believed that the deities had gone back to where they came from, or somehow died within the mortal world. Those of the deities that were not cast out, stayed around the mortals. Building lives for themselves where they saw fit. Many choosing the stay within the walls of the [[Nightvale/Nightvale Academy\|Nightvale Academy]].


Mortals found that some of the deities referred to each other as you would refer to your own family. In some cases it was found to be true that they were in fact related, whereas others weren't actual related and simply referred to one another as siblings due to their familiarity with one another. This confused many mortals and so they were simply written off as related. The deities themselves are in fact capable of carrying children, however many prefer not to and would rather create their offspring through magical means.