---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/deities-myths-and-lore/relics/"}
---

While relics have been written of in history and have been known to exist, all relics have seemingly *disappeared*, having been over five centuries since the last time a relic was accounted for. Many mortals believe that long ago, after [[World History/The Night of Tau\|The Night of Tau]] a [[Deities, Myths & Lore/War of Faiths\|War of Faiths]] broke out between the gods. Although there are a few historical accounts of a dispute, most regard it as little more than a family feud rather than a war. One written text tells a story of the so called "War of Faiths", but it is to be regarded as just that, *a story*. 

Each relic has a story behind its creation, as well as a story for each of its most prominent users. However each seem to start with a deity going to [[Deities, Myths & Lore/Cilleth\|Cilleth]] for assistance. The magic he wields within his forge has made each relic to the specifications given by the deities. While Cilleth forges the relics for the deities, they tend to embellish them with their own *"flair"* if you will.

Relics may also be referred to as an Artifact of faith in their texts. Many of these relics are believed to be lost to time, it has been over a century since a recorded champion. The last known champion was one of Nythar's, known to wield a heavy looking great sword that was said to be much larger than its wielder. Many stories have been told of the various champions of the Gods, most ending in heartbreaking sorrow; while the various stories account the champions as using different weapons it was found odd that champions who shared a deity did not also share a relic. Tales of the champions linger even now, stories of heroes to young children, heartache and war to adults.

The tales of the champions, while entertaining and full of lessons and morals, they all seem to leave out one very important detail; the champion's purposes. While many come up with theories or ideas as to what they might have been, no one knows for sure the reason champions are chosen. Champions are the rarest of the rare, with heightened abilities and divine gifts their power is often sought after. Some believed that if you were to kill a champion you would take on their powers, however this is not the case. Due to this belief many of the past champions were hunted and killed leading to the deities refusing to choose new champions until their time might be right. While champions might not be able to pass on their specialized abilities, the families and descendants of the few champions who had children are know to be destined for great things, often times being born with talents of great quality. Families of champions often also hold places of great power in their respective regions, their family names carrying the weight of a champions deeds.

While there isn't any information on how a champion is chosen, a bit of information is known on how a being is affected by the powers. Most notable is a subtle shift in the hue of the eye when a champion channels their power, the most famous of which was Esper Seralien whose eyes were known to shift to an entrancing icy silver; eyes that perfectly reflected that of her patron, Atia's. Some champions have been known to receive markings or patterns on their bodies meant to assist in channeling the power given to them. Other champions had gained physical attributes, hardened skin, sharp teeth, dexterous tails and the list goes on. In the unfortunate case of a rare few champions, they received a backlash affect, painful and permanent, leaving them scarred for life; one was blinded by the sight of their deity, another was plagued with night terrors so harsh they refused to sleep for days, the worst was the one who was left paralyzed by the static flow of energy that coursed through their veins. Being chosen as a champion for a deity is not a one sided contract, it is not simply a gift, and it is not forced upon the chosen; they are given a choice to walk away, to refuse the gift without angering the deity, though many do not choose to dismiss the rare gift. 

While a majority of the relics mentioned in the tales of the champions are missing, left lost to time, a few have some known locations. The great sword of Nythar's most recent champion is kept high on the wall of the Archives, left bloodied from the fight that took the champion's life. Esper's staff of Atia is kept in the vault of her descendant's manor in Cholk. The last known relic is a bit of a mystery, with no history of the wielder nor the deity whom it once belonged to, it sits seated in the stone statue of a dragon in front of the Nightvale Academy grounds; while many have tried to pull the sword from its place, it has been found an impossible feat. That however doesn't stop students from attempting to pull the sword from its statue every year, it's been seen as a right of passage to new students during their first year though not all participate. A rumor that keeps the students trying is the possibility of becoming a champion, as students have theorized that the sword is a test meant to show who is worthy of the deity's attention. A student once got the sword to shift slightly, however other than letting out a soft crack it chose to stay seated in its spot. The student however gained immense popularity as word spread that someone had gotten the sword to move, even as a first year they gained the attention of the older students with one simple act. The fame was known to last into the student's adulthood, Clement Shiik, the boy who moved the sword. Many questioned if he was supposed to be a champion, one who turned it down perhaps, however when asked directly Clement denied ever having a deity speak to him in that manner claiming the sword did nothing more than settle as he tried to pull it free. 